Migration guide from ROS Wiki to docs.ros.org (#4167)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/The-ROS2-Project/Contributing/Contributing-To-ROS-2-Documentation.rst

This will check the entire site for broken links, and output the results to the screen and ``build/linkcheck``.

Migrating Pages from the ROS Wiki
---------------------------------

> 

Reviewer: we can remove this line.

Author: Can you clarify this comment? Do you mean the blank space (128)?  Just pattern matching, but most of the headings have a blank line between heading and text.

Reviewer: Ah, i thought there were 2 lines here, sorry ignore me.

> The first step in migrating a page from the `ROS Wiki <https://wiki.ros.org?>`_ to the ROS documentation is to determine if the page needs to be migrated. Pages that you or others find useful, and refer to regularly, are good candidates assuming they have not been supersceded by other documentation.

Reviewer: one sentence per line.

```suggestion
The first step in migrating a page from the `ROS Wiki <https://wiki.ros.org?>`_ to the ROS documentation is to determine if the page needs to be migrated.
Pages that you or others find useful, and refer to regularly, are good candidates assuming they have not been supersceded by other documentation.
```

Author: Chris got this in another comment, merged in already.

> 
> The first step in migrating a page from the `ROS Wiki <https://wiki.ros.org?>`_ to the ROS documentation is to determine if the page needs to be migrated. Pages that you or others find useful, and refer to regularly, are good candidates assuming they have not been supersceded by other documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first step in migrating a page from the `ROS Wiki <https://wiki.ros.org?>`_ to the ROS documentation is to determine if the page needs to be migrated.
Check if the content, or something similar, is available on https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling by searching for related terms.
If it has already been migrated, congratulations!
You are done.
If it hasn't been migrated, then consider whether it is worth keeping.
Pages that you or others find useful, and refer to regularly, are good candidates assuming they have not been superseded by other documentation.
```

Pages for ROS projects and features that are no longer supported by a current distribution should not be migrated.

The next step for migrating a ROS Wiki page is to determine the correct location for the migrated page.

> Only ROS Wiki pages that cover core ROS concepts belong in the ROS Documentation; these pages should be migrated to a logical location within the ROS documentation.

Reviewer: typo?

```suggestion
Only ROS Wiki pages that cover core ROS concepts belong in the ROS Documentation, these pages should be migrated to a logical location within the ROS documentation.
```

Package specific documentation should be migrated to the package-level documentation generated in the package's source repository.

> Once the package level documentation has been updted it will be visible `as part of the package-level documentation <https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/p/>`_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the package level documentation has been updated it will be visible `as part of the package-level documentation <https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/p/>`__.
If you are unsure whether and where to migrate a page, please get in touch via an issue on https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation or on https://discourse.ros.org.
```

Once you've determined that a ROS Wiki page is worth migrating, and found an appropriate landing spot in the ROS documentation, the next step in the migration process is to set up the conversion tools necessary to migrate the page.
In most cases the only tools necessary to migrate a single ROS Wiki page to the ROS Docs are the `PanDoc <https://pandoc.org/>`_ command line tool and a text editor.
PanDoc is supported by most modern operating systems using the installation instruction found on their website.

> It is worth noting that the ROS Wiki uses an older wiki technology that is a competitor to the technology used by Wikipedia, as such the markup language used is an obscure dialect of the MediaWiki format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is worth noting that the ROS Wiki uses an older wiki technology (MoinMoin), so the markup language used is an obscure dialect of the `MediaWiki <https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Formatting>`__ format.
```

We've found that the easiest way to migrate a page from the ROS Wiki is to convert it from HTML into reStructured text using PanDoc.

Migrating a Wiki File
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> #. Create a new Github branch for your migrated page. We suggest something like ``pagename-migration``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Clone the appropriate repository.  If you are migrating a page to the official documentation hosted here, then you should clone https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation.

#. Create a new Github branch for your migrated page. We suggest something like ``pagename-migration``.
```

#. Download the appropriate ROS Wiki page to an html file using wget or a similar tool (e.g. ``wget -O urdf.html https://wiki.ros.org/urdf``).
   Alternatively you can use your web browser to save the page's HTML.

#. Next you need to remove the extraneous HTML in the file you downloaded
   Using your browser's developer mode, find the name of the first useful HTML element in the Wiki page.
   In most cases all of the HTML between the third line of the file, starting with the ``<head>`` tag, through the start of the first ``<h1>`` tag can be safely removed.
   In the case where there is a table of contents, the first useful tag may be an ``<h2>`` tag.  Similarly, the ROS wiki contains some footer text that starts with ``<div id="pagebottom"></div>`` and ends just above ``</body></html>`` that can also be removed.

> 

Reviewer: we can remove this line.

Author: See above. Can you clarify a bit?

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

#. Attempt to build your new documentation using the ``make html`` command.
   There may be errors and warnings that you will need to address.

#. **CAREFULLY** read through the entire page making sure the material is up to date for ROS 2.
   Check every single link to make sure it points to the appropriate location on docs.ros.org.
   Internal document references must be updated to point to the equivalent ROS 2 material.
   Your updated document should not point to the ROS Wiki unless it is absolutely necessary.
   This process may require you alter the document considerably, and you may need to pull multiple wiki files.
   You should verify that every code sample in the document is working correctly under ROS 2.

#. Find and download any images that may be in the old document. The easiest way to do this is to right click in the browser and download all of the images. Alternatively you can find images by searching for ``<img src>`` tags in the HTML file.

#. For each image files downloaded update the image file links to point to the correct image directory for the ROS Docs.

>    If any of the images require updating, or could be replaced with a Mermaid chart, please make this change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If any of the images require updating, or could be replaced with a `Mermaid <https://mermaid.js.org/intro/>`__ chart, please make this change.
```

#. Attempt to build your new documentation using the ``make html`` command.
   There may be errors and warnings that you will need to address.

#. **CAREFULLY** read through the entire page making sure the material is up to date for ROS 2.
   Check every single link to make sure it points to the appropriate location on docs.ros.org.
   Internal document references must be updated to point to the equivalent ROS 2 material.
   Your updated document should not point to the ROS Wiki unless it is absolutely necessary.
   This process may require you alter the document considerably, and you may need to pull multiple wiki files.
   You should verify that every code sample in the document is working correctly under ROS 2.

#. Find and download any images that may be in the old document. The easiest way to do this is to right click in the browser and download all of the images. Alternatively you can find images by searching for ``<img src>`` tags in the HTML file.

#. For each image files downloaded update the image file links to point to the correct image directory for the ROS Docs.

>    If any of the images require updating, or could be replaced with a `Mermaid <https://mermaid.js.org/intro/>`__ chart, please make this change.

Reviewer 3: does mermaid work for all packages (i.e. generically with rosdoc2 for api docs?) or just ros core documentation? If just core docs, might want to clarify that

Reviewer 2: > does mermaid work for all packages (i.e. generically with rosdoc2 for api docs?) or just ros core documentation? If just core docs, might want to clarify that

Good point.  Right now, it will only work for the ROS 2 core documentation, so we should be explicit here.

Author: @mikeferguson you're a saint. We really appreciate it. I guess we could include a longer example. 

I don't have a great answer on wiki images. The wiki is held together with tape and bailing wire at this poing. I was considering making a markdown clone of the wiki but I fear it might take the whole edifice to the ground. More to the point, the path the wiki uses for images is a bit weird, I ran into images trying use wget to pull images out the html files.
